# Homework 1


The purpose of this homework is to develop a bash script that uses the ping
command to test whether a device is online. The results of this script
should be logged with a timestamp. The script should be run as a cron job.
If a server is not responding, email the system administrator (you).

## Useful commands
### ping
```console
ping 192.168.1.1 -c3
ping google.com -c3
```
### cut
Split a string using the percentage sign and
get the first part of the split:

```console
echo “100% awesome” | cut -d”%” -f1
```
Get the second split:

```console
echo “100% awesome” | cut -d”%” -f2
```

Split using space instead of percentage:

```console
echo “100% awesome” | cut -d” ” -f1
```

### mail (from mailutils package)

To install:
```bash
sudo apt update # update software sources

sudo apt install mailutils # install mail package
```

```bash
# to send a message using echo
echo “message body” | mail -s “subject” lee@lee.local

# check mail with:
mail

# or

cat /var/mail/lee
```

## Script functionality

- Use a list of IP addresses using an input file or arguments
- Use a loop to ping a list of devices
- Parse the output of the ping command
- Check the output status
- If the ping is not responding or is missing packets, report this to the log
and send an email
- If the device is normal, report this to the log
- The script should run every five minutes.


# Grading

### 1. Ping devices (2 pts)
- Show that the script pings addresses (1pt)
- You should ping at least *3* addresses. One of the addresses should contain your UAlbany NetID. For
example, a NetID of AB123456 should ping 12.34.56.1. (1pt)

### 2. Log information (2 pts)
- Show the log file with script output.
The logs *must* have a
timestamp for each entry (2pts)

### 3. Email when getting errors (3 pts)
- Show the emails you receive from the failed pings for the out-of-service IP address

### 4. Run task at regular intervals (3 pts)
- Show the crontab file and the log demonstrating the program runs at the specified intervals.

### 5. Avoid hard coded inputs (3 pts)
- Accept addresses as arguments (1pt)
- Read addresses from a text file (1pt)
- Read *multiple* addresses from a text file (1pt)


## Scoring
The assignment is graded out of 10 points. Any score
above 10 is worth extra credit, meaning the highest
possible grade is 13/10=130%.

# Submission

All homework will be submitted through Github
Classroom.
The link for this is assignment is
[https://classroom.github.com/g/liTW3smm](https://classroom.github.com/g/liTW3smm).

You may work with one other person. If working with someone else, then make sure to create a group submission.
