# Homework 2

In this homework, we will analyze posts from
artificial intelligence/machine learning communities
on Reddit.

From this analysis, we will learn how to summarize
data with timestamps, use grouping with `pandas`, and
apply some basic text analysis techniques.

# Data

The data we will use comes from a
[Kaggle data repo](https://www.kaggle.com/maksymshkliarevskyi/reddit-data-science-posts).  


# Setup

You can download the data directly from the Kaggle page
(account required), or from the BFOR 206 Github repo.

Use the tools and techniques from the Python labs
that demonstrate how to use `pandas`. Some parts
of the assignment may have been completed during labs.




<!--  -->
# Scoring
This assignment will be graded out of [12] points. There is a
maximum of [16] possible points.

## 1. Summarize the data (4 points)

1. Which subreddit has the most posts (top 5)?
2. Which user has the most posts (top 5)?
3. Which subreddit has the most distinct post authors?
4. Which subreddit contains the greatest percentage of posts
   with a post body (i.e. contains a value in the `post` column)?

## 2. Visualize the data (4 points)

1. Plot the total number of posts across all subreddits over time (line plot).
2. Plot a histogram showing the distribution of post scores.
3. Plot the total number of posts per day of the week.
4. Plot the total number of posts per hour of the day.


## 3. Get insights from the data (4 points)

1. Which subreddit had the most new posts in the previous month (top 5)?
2. Does the length of a post title correlate with score of the post?
3. What are the top 20 words used in post titles?
4. What are the top 10 most linked website domains?

## 4. Conduct your own analysis (up to 4 points)

You may run an analysis of your choosing that is not included
in the above sections, for a maximum of four points. The analyses
should be distinct from and at least as substantial as those in the above
sections to receive credit. You can also look at other related
datasets.

# Submission



You may work individually or in pairs.

The homework is due April 30.

Create a new repository using this
[Github Classroom link](https://classroom.github.com/g/fhaIx55_).

Commit and push your code to this Git repository. The
instructor will grade the last commit before the due
date.


# Ideas for Q4

1. Topics/keywords over time, like Python, Java, R, etc.
2. Posts that contain images
3. Top words with stopwords removed
5. h-index for post authors (based on score)
6. Are there fewer posts with text bodies as a community grows? (hard)
7. Apply VADER sentiment on the titles of the post.
8. Are there any communities that experienced decline? For this question,
   define decline as a month-over-month decrease in the number of
   comments for three or more consecutive months.


# Checkpoints
These are some quantities/values that you can use to check the
correctness of your code. I will try to update these as needed.

   1. Total number of rows: 499,143
